Let's turn our attention to the Schiller family.
Is it possible to balance raising a family
with a busy spiritual routine?
And if circumstances allow,
can parents reach out for spiritual goals,
even full-time service?
Let's listen to their answers to those questions.
Sometimes people say,
you know, what was your secret?
How did you raise six kids?
We got married September 16th, 1972.
Two things started coming quickly.
Spiritual privileges came along,
and the children came along together.
I was made and elder shortly after the older arrangement came into effect.
The kids were just part of all that.
And, you know, I think sometimes I didn't know.
We were doing substitute work with five children,
and I don't think they even knew what we were doing.
In 1989, we were pioneering
and then we had the opportunity to help out at Bethel,
and maybe a week or two at a time.
About that time,
Patterson was starting up,
and we kind of recognized that
maybe we were getting too comfortable.
We went in one time at Bethel today.
If you need a doctor out of Patterson,
why we be available,
or we could make ourselves available,
maybe.
And wouldn't you know what,
shortly after we got a call,
how quick could you sell your place and be up here?
So we went to Bethel with six kids,
sold our house at a loss,
so we could do that,
and started a new life there.
So we learned pretty quick.
Don't turn down any privileges,
and especially not because we had kids.
When we went to Bethel,
the oldest one was 17.
Having children,
kept my husband and I very humble,
because as soon as you thought you had something figured out,
each child need to be disciplined in a different way.
And as soon as you thought,
boy, you know, I got this figured out,
you're thrown a curve.
A challenge was to keep doing the basic things.
You'd come home tired.
It would be so easy not to have the family study,
maybe one Monday.
It's those basic simple things that I think
kept us on an even keel.
I often think of the illustration that Jesus gave
at the end of the Sermon on the Mount
when he said that about this foundation that was washed away.
And Jesus never blamed the storm.
He blamed the foundation.
And so we recognize that any child anywhere,
in fact, even adults, get their faith tested.
So we tried to really make sure they had a good foundation
that didn't get washed away.
Prepare them.
Let them learn how to deal with people
while they're under your care.
And get them ready for life.
We got to thinking other parents
require their kids to go to college.
So we just required them to pioneer for a year.
Any kind of education, any kind of secular education,
can teach you how to have a skill so that you have a job.
But the Bible teaches you how to live.
And it teaches you principles that you can live your life by.
And all of them kept pioneering.
You know, they did various jobs to support themselves.
They cleaned, they worked in a number of yards.
They worked on roofing.
None of them have a complicated life that holds them down.
I wanted everlasting life for my children.
And I knew I would have to give them back to Jehovah.
We have to realize we don't own our children Jehovah's Day.
And we have to respect that.
We're not telling them what to do anymore.
We appreciate and we're very, very thankful when our children
is far away as they are and as busy as they are.
That they take the time to communicate with us.
And I know you won't remember this.
I remember one time before you fell asleep at night.
I said all that you have done for Jehovah.
What would you like in return?
Do you remember what you said?
You said three words.
All my children.
In Deuteronomy, it's that I put life and death before.
And you must choose.
So we can do what we could as parents.
Some things good, some things.
Not so good.
In the end, each one had to make his or her own decision.
And that's why, again, not any secret.
We were so proud of what the kids had decided
and how they turned out because it was their decision.
I think that's the thing that we've learned
is don't turn down opportunities.
Isn't it wonderful to hear of ones like Brother and Sister Schiller
who have offered their gifts to Jehovah?
Brother Schiller said that it was doing the basic things
that kept his family focused spiritually.
So when opportunities came along, he was able to do more.
That included pioneering, substitute circuit work,
and using the medical training he had already acquired
to volunteer at the Patterson Educational Center.
Proverbs 10-22 says,
it is the blessing of Jehovah that makes one rich
and he adds no hardship with it.
That certainly has proved true for Brother Schiller and his family.